{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww35640\viewh19380\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------\
# Code and Data availability README\
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
# Julia Joswig\
# 26.09.2021\
\
This README describes the code and data to reproduce the supplement results of
\fs22  
\fs24 "Climatic and soil factors explain the two-dimensional1spectrum of global plant trait variation", published as Joswig et al. in Nature Ecology and Evolution. All code and most data files are made available in this repository. All data files can be uploaded in the data repository of TRY-db.org.\
\
Code availability: We provide all code to reproduce the main results and all figures and Extended Data figures of the main paper.\
Data availability: We provide all files/data needed to reproduce the study's results as well as all intermediate data. This includes the BHPMF-predicted trait data, geo-reference data, categorical data (provideded by TRY) (described in detail in Methods), and in addition we provide the daily test statistic time series for all models, reanalysis, and observations (that is, the models, reanalysis and observations projected onto the fingerprints). Due to storage and copyright constraints, original/raw CMIP5 files, reanalyses and observational datasets have to be downloaded from their original sources (given in Acknowledgements).\
\
This README file contains:\
\
1. Directory and Data Structure \
2. Model building by Ridge Regression and Hierarchical Partitioning.\
3. Reproduction of Figures\
\
\
\
1. Directory Structure \
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
/scripts: Contains all code/functions to run scripts and reproduce figures, whereas \'93Main.R\'94 in the central script. \
/data: Contains all intermediate data to reproduce the study's results. This includes master_matrix with the merged trait, soil and climate data added with categorical information derived from TRY on two aggregation levels (Species per ecoregion and Ecoregion).\
/data/master_matrix/info_\'85 .csv contains the explanations of data in columns of the respective data set. For example does info_X1.csv contain the explanation for X1.csv or X1.RData.\
/figures: Contains the figures 1 to 4.\
/scripts: Contains scripts used to model building traits with climate and soil data, and to produce figures 1 to 4, as well as the table 1.\
/figures: Contains all the figures.\
\
\
\
2. Statistical Learning Code for Fingerprint extraction from CMIP5 archive\
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
The fingerprints extracted from the CMIP5 archive are available in /data/cmip5_trained_fingerprints_LMO/CMIP5.tas_ann_anom_mvar_HadISDH_masks_LMO.RData (for AGMT target metric) and /data/cmip5_trained_fingerprints_LMO/CMIP5.TOA_r10_mvar_HadISDH_masks_LMO_HIST.RData (for TOA imbalance target metric). Both files contain the extracted regression coefficient maps (i.e., fingerprints), as well as the test data obtained through leaving each model out from training and cross-validation sequentially (see Methods). The files also contain comprehensive error statics for each training scenario.\
\
All R-Code for the extraction of fingerprints from the CMIP5 archive, using the ridge regression statistical learning method (from the glmnet package, Friedman et al. (2010)) is available in:\
 - /scripts/01_cmip5/_01_trainCMIP5_tas_anom_diffCV.R (AGMT target metric)\
 - /scripts/01_cmip5/_01_trainCMIP5_TOA_r10_diffCV.R (TOA imbalance target metric)\
Both scripts use "leave-one-model-out cross-validation" (described in Methods) and the main function to extract fingerprint is made available in /code/_01_train_predict_glmnet_diffCV.R. \
\
\
3. Reproduction of Figures:\
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
To reproduce figures go to /figures. Each folder (e.g., /_fig02) contains a .R file that is executable and produces the respective figure, using code and data from the /code, /scripts, and /data directories. \
It's also possible to explore our results further using (1) the test statistic time series from models, reanalyses or observations, and/or (2) the extracted fingerprints from CMIP5. Both are read into memory for instance in /_fig03/_fig03_SIMPLEFIG.R.\
Additionally all raw figures are already contained in each figure directory as .pdf or .png files.\
\
\
\
4. Processing data from original sources\
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
To process all data from their original source requires to download all original daily data from CMIP5, Reanalyses and Observations. To facilitate processing from the original sources, we provide the detailed steps:\
 - All original files used from the CMIP5 archive are specified in /data/_metadata/cmip5_files.txt\
 - Regrid all original data onto a 5x5\'b0 regular grid (specified in /data/_metadata/global_5d00.txt)\
 - Process all model data, reanalyses, and observations into a nxp matrix with n samples (i.e., along the time axis) and p spatial locations (72x36 grid cells). To facilitate this processing, a sample file from CMIP5 is provided in /data/cmip5_processed_01/cmip5_DoM_anom005_mvar_tmp.RData, and the functions used to read-in CMIP5 data are given in code/_00_READ_CMIP5_functions.R.\
The CMIP5 files processed this way can be directly used to run the fingerprint extraction scripts (detailed above). Then, the reanalysis and observational data processed in this way can be directly projected onto these fingerprints (for each month separately, as specified in Methods).\
\
\
\
References:\
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------\
Jerome Friedman, Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani (2010). Regularization Paths for Generalized Linear Models via Coordinate Descent. Journal of Statistical Software, 33(1), 1-22. URL http://www.jstatsoft.org/v33/i01/.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}